Let's talk about TypeScript for
just a moment.
And interestingly enough,
I would say my favorite
things about Angular
have nothing to do with
the framework itself.
It is stand-alone kind of independent
technologies that I think
the Angular team has embraced that
makes Angular really, really good.
A big one is Typescript.
And so let's walk through just a couple
of TypeScript features that we're
gonna see today, and what they are,
what they do, and why they're useful.
So you'll notice here that
we have a basic component.
And this is in TypeScript.
And there are a number of things
that are happening in this
bit of code that if somebody
is just coming from ES6,
they're gonna say, wait a second,
you can't do that.
If you're coming from ES-5, forget,
you've got bigger problems.
But one of them is the ability to strongly
type your properties in your methods.
And the reason why I like this is because
by programming to an interface or
a type, you're able to communicate,
ensure, and invalidate intent.
Not only to other developers, but
to your IDE and to your compiler.
And so for me, one of the biggest
upsides for using TypeScript
is the ability to essentially broadcast
intent of I have items for what is that.
Well, if you care to look,
you can just look at the item interface.
With an interface, we can
essentially establish a contract for
how something is going to be constructed.
So for something to implement or
be of type item, they must have an ID,
a name, and a description, and
optionally, an image property.
And so if I understand the interface,
then I can make some inferences
about how this is going to behave.
And so if I, for instance,
called a function that returns an item,
and I don't think I have one here.
But I could have a function that says, get
current item, and I see that it returns
an item, I know exactly what to expect so
that I can then render it appropriately.
Another thing that I
don't believe ES6 has,
or if it has,
it just as recently happened by ES6.
I mean, everything that's not ES-5,
the field assignment.
And so what this is is that instead of
having to assign local properties in
my constructor by just adding
them to the top of my class,
you can see that it's now
available automatically
to everything else in
the class as a local property.
So the second line, the first line
that is actually called out here,
items, I've just added that as a property,
but
then down at the bottom,
you can see it's this.items.
So it's went ahead and attach that as
a property to any instance of that class.
This also works in terms
of constructor assignment.
So you can add it in as a field, or
if you add in a parameter into
the constructor and you assign public or
private, it assumes that that access
modifier is there for a reason.
And so what it will do
under the hood is then say,
we have this parameter of itemsService,
it's private.
Let's go ahead and
assign this as a property of the class.
And so with ES-6, what you will
do is you would get itemsService,
then you have to say,
this.itemsService equals itemsService.
And you have to map those
parameters to local properties.
TypeScript under the hood is just saying,
I think we can assume
that this is what you wanna do,
we're going to do it for you.
The other piece that is not, well,
so you can implement an interface.
And this in itself like the example
here is Angular specific,
but it allows us to say, we are going
to implement the OnInit interface.
Which means that we are required
by law to use ngOnInit
inside of our class or it's not compliant.
And I mean, a little bit facetious, but
what this allows us to do is when
we implement an interface, so
not only in interface can you have types,
but you can have methods.
Is that you can say, if it implements
this interface, we know for
a fact it has these methods
in these properties.
And just an interesting idea,
I'm not gonna get into this here.
But the idea is if you've ever heard
the saying program to the interface and
not to the concrete implementation.
That you can pass in
a parameter into a function,
and you can type that to the interface.
Meaning, if you had,
let's say, a human, dog, and
cat interface, and
they all had a speak method on it.
Well, it doesn't matter if you pass in
a concrete instance of human, cat, or dog.
It just knows that if you implement a
living creature interface that has speak,
that you can call speak on that instance,
whatever you pass it in.
So it's a way to say, I'm going to pass
in something, we're not going to tell you
what it is, but
it's going to be of this type interface.
And now, you have some really interesting
things you can do in terms of composition.
So being able to program to an interface
and not to an instance is really, really,
really powerful.